Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/optimization_guide/dldt_optimization_guide.md

# Introduction to Performance Optimization {#openvino_docs_optimization_guide_dldt_optimization_guide}

> In this guide You will be presented with information about definition of inference performance, how it can be measured, and what are the possible techniques to optimized it.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide presents the definition of inference performance and how it can be measured. It also describes possible optimization techniques.
```

Be aware that reported inference performance often tends to focus on the speed of execution. 

> In fact these are at least four connected factors of accuracy, throughput/latency and efficiency. The rest of this guide discusses how to balance these key factors.

Author: ```suggestion
In fact, there are at least four connected factors of accuracy, throughput/latency and efficiency. The rest of this guide discusses how to balance these key factors.
```

> ## What Is Inference Performance?

Author: ```suggestion
## Inference Performance
```
IMHO it is self-explanatory enough.

> In general, performance defined is as rate with which the model processes live data. There are two, fundamentally interconnected, key metrics used to measure that performance: latency and throughput. 

Author: ```suggestion
In general, performance is defined as a rate with which the model processes live data. There are two, fundamentally interconnected key metrics used to measure that performance: latency and throughput. 
```

![](../img/LATENCY_VS_THROUGHPUT.svg)

> **Latency** measures inference time (in ms) required to process a single input. When it comes to the executing multiple inputs simultaneously (e.g. via batching) then usually the overall throughput (inferences per second, or frames per second, FPS, in the specific case of visual processing) is more of a concern.

Author: ```suggestion
**Latency** measures inference time (in ms) required to process a single input. When it comes to the executing multiple inputs simultaneously (for example, via batching), the overall throughput (inferences per second, or frames per second, FPS, in the specific case of visual processing) is usually more of a concern.
```

> **Throughput** is calculated by number of inputs that were processed divded by the processing time.

Author: ```suggestion
**Throughput** is calculated by dividing number of inputs that were processed by the processing time.
```

## End-to-End Application Performance

> It is important to separate the "pure" inference time of a neural network and the end-to-end application performance. For example, data transfers between the host and a device may unintentionally affect the performance when a host input tensor is processed on the accelerator like dGPU.

Author: ```suggestion
It is important to separate the "pure" inference time of a neural network and the end-to-end application performance. For example, data transfers between the host and a device may unintentionally affect the performance when a host input tensor is processed on the accelerator such as dGPU.
```

> Similarly, the input-preprocessing contributes significantly to the to inference time. As detailed in the [getting performance numbers](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md) section, when drilling into _inference_ performance, one option is to measure all such items separately. 

Author: ```suggestion
Similarly, the input-preprocessing contributes significantly to the inference time. As described in the [getting performance numbers](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md) section, when evaluating *inference* performance, one option is to measure all such items separately. 
```

> For the **end-to-end scenario** though, consider the image pre-processing through the OpenVINO and the asynchronous execution as a way to amortize the communication costs (like data transfers). For more details, see the [general optimizations guide](./dldt_deployment_optimization_common.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For the **end-to-end scenario** though, consider the image pre-processing with OpenVINO and the asynchronous execution as a way to amortize the communication costs (like data transfers). For more details, see the [general optimizations guide](./dldt_deployment_optimization_common.md).
```

> Another specific case is **first-inference latency** (e.g. when fast application start-up is required), where the resulting performance may be well dominated by the model loading time. [Model caching](../OV_Runtime_UG/Model_caching_overview.md) may be considered as a way to improve model loading/compilation time.

Author: ```suggestion
Another specific case is **first-inference latency** (for example, when a fast application start-up is required), where the resulting performance may be well dominated by the model loading time. [Model caching](../OV_Runtime_UG/Model_caching_overview.md) may be considered as a way to improve model loading/compilation time.
```

> Finally, **memory footprint** restriction is another possible concern when designing an application. While this is a motivation for use of the _model_ optimization techniques, keep in mind that the throughput-oriented execution is usually much more memory-hungry. For more details, see the [Runtime Inference Optimizations guide](../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_guide.md). 

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, **memory footprint** restriction is another possible concern when designing an application. While this is a motivation for the use of the *model* optimization techniques, keep in mind that the throughput-oriented execution is usually much more memory consuming. For more details, see the [Runtime Inference Optimizations guide](../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_guide.md). 
```

> > **NOTE**: To get performance numbers for OpenVINO, along with the tips on how to measure and compare it with native framework, see the [Getting performance numbers article](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md).

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: To get performance numbers for OpenVINO, along with the tips on how to measure and compare it with a native framework, see the [Getting performance numbers article](../MO_DG/prepare_model/Getting_performance_numbers.md).
```

 
## Improving the Performance: Model vs Runtime Optimizations 

> > **NOTE**: Before Your start, make sure that your model can be successfully inferred with OpenVINO Runtime. 

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: First, make sure that your model can be successfully inferred with OpenVINO Runtime. 
```

> With the OpenVINO there are two primary ways of improving the inference performance: model- and runtime-level optimizations. These two optimizations directions are **fully compatible**. 

Author: ```suggestion
There are two primary ways of improving the inference performance with OpenVINO: model- and runtime-level optimizations. These two optimization methods are **fully compatible**. 
```

> - **Model optimizations** includes model modifications, such as quantization, pruning, optimization of preprocessing, etc. For more details, refer to this [document](./model_optimization_guide.md). 

Author: ```suggestion
- **Model optimizations** include model modifications, such as quantization, pruning, optimization of preprocessing, etc. For more details, refer to this [document](./model_optimization_guide.md). 
```

>     - The model optimizations directly improve the inference time, even without (described below) runtime parameters tuning.

Author: ```suggestion
    - The model optimizations directly improve the inference time, even without runtime parameters tuning (described below).
```

- **Runtime (Deployment) optimizations** includes tuning of model _execution_ parameters. Fore more details, see the [Runtime Inference Optimizations guide](../optimization_guide/dldt_deployment_optimization_guide.md).

## Performance benchmarks

> Wide range of public models, intended to estimate the performance and compare performance numbers (measured on various supported devices), are available at [Performance benchmarks section](../benchmarks/performance_benchmarks.md).

Author: ```suggestion
Wide range of public models intended to estimate the performance and compare performance numbers (measured on various supported devices) are available at [Performance benchmarks section](../benchmarks/performance_benchmarks.md).
```
